README.rst, before:

Default Settings for Django Applications
========================================

*version*: 0.1 beta

This repository [1]_ contains a proof of concept Django application that ships
default values for its own settings. This is good for a number of reasons:

1. The application's settings are included in the output of `manage.py
diffsettings`.

2. Application code can just use `settings.MY_SETTING` instead of
`getattr(settings, 'MY_SETTING', 'The default value')`.

3. Application settings are defined in a single place, with sane default
values and, hopefully, with comments. Don't Repeat Yourself!

The actual code is rather simple: it just uses the opportunity afforded it
when the application module is loaded to inject its own default settings into
both the `django.conf.global_settings` module (Django's built-in default
settings, and the source for things like the `diffsettings` management
command) and the `django.conf.settings` object (being careful to check to see
if it already contains a value).

To see more, take a look at:

* `application_settings/__init__.py`_ - the code to provide these defaults.

This is slightly less than a perfect solution (being able to patch
`django.conf.global_settings` *before* `django.conf.settings` is initialised),
but the hypothetical perfection is simply not possible: the settings must be
loaded before they can be used to import the `INSTALLED_APPS`.

Instalation
-----------

::

  pip install django-application-settings

or latest:

::

  git clone https://github.com/elvard/django-application-settings
  cd django-application-settings
  python setup.py install

Although this repository is so simple that between git repository and pip
package will be delay few day at most (probably hours).

Usage
-----

Add these lines to __init__.py inside your app::
  
  from application_settings import provide_default_settings
  provide_default_settings(__name__)

Create file settings.py inside your application directory with default settings::

  # Example
  PREFIX_KEY = 'value'

It's advisable to use PREFIX before all your settings names to avoid names clash.


.. [1] See original_ repository.

.. _original: http://github.com/thsutton/django-application-settings
.. _application_settings/__init__.py: http://github.com/elvard/django-application-settings/tree/master/application_settings/__init__.py

Commit message:

Added autodiscover_settings(), minor fixes.
Settings are loaded just once, no matter how ofter
autodiscover_settings() or provide_default_settings() is called to avoid
settings name clash.

README.rst, after:

Default Settings for Django Applications
========================================

*version*: 0.2

This repository [1]_ contains a proof of concept Django application that ships
default values for its own settings. This is good for a number of reasons:

1. The application's settings are included in the output of `manage.py
diffsettings`.

2. Application code can just use `settings.MY_SETTING` instead of
`getattr(settings, 'MY_SETTING', 'The default value')`.

3. Application settings are defined in a single place, with sane default
values and, hopefully, with comments. Don't Repeat Yourself!

The actual code is rather simple: it just uses the opportunity afforded it
when the application module is loaded to inject its own default settings into
both the `django.conf.global_settings` module (Django's built-in default
settings, and the source for things like the `diffsettings` management
command) and the `django.conf.settings` object (being careful to check to see
if it already contains a value).

To see more, take a look at:

* `application_settings/__init__.py`_ - the code to provide these defaults.

This is slightly less than a perfect solution (being able to patch
`django.conf.global_settings` *before* `django.conf.settings` is initialised),
but the hypothetical perfection is simply not possible: the settings must be
loaded before they can be used to import the `INSTALLED_APPS`.

Instalation
-----------

::

  pip install django-application-settings

or latest:

::

  git clone https://github.com/elvard/django-application-settings
  cd django-application-settings
  python setup.py install

Although this repository is so simple that between git repository and pip
package will be delay few day at most (probably hours).

Usage
-----

The simplest method is to use `autodiscover_settings` somewhere in `urls.py`::

  autodiscover_settings()

Or you can add these lines to __init__.py inside your app if you don't want to 
load settings from other packages in `INSTALLED_APPS`::
  
  from application_settings import provide_default_settings
  provide_default_settings(__name__)

Create file settings.py inside your application directory with default settings::

  # Example
  PREFIX_KEY = 'value'

It's advisable to use PREFIX before all your settings names to avoid names clash.


.. [1] See original_ repository.

.. _original: http://github.com/thsutton/django-application-settings
.. _application_settings/__init__.py: http://github.com/elvard/django-application-settings/tree/master/application_settings/__init__.py
